{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Note: program requires gfortran compiler, gnuplot and ImageMagick. On a mac, which this program was written on, one can install ImageMagick with MacPorts by running \'93sudo port install ImageMagick\'94 in the command line. \
\
Directory /davinci_solver contains all modules required for the da Vinci fluids solver and a compile script to compile and then combine all modules into a master program master_davinci. \
\
The compile script must be run as ./davinci_solver/compile_script.sh from the director above davinci_solver. This parent directory must also contain a /data folder. \
\
When running ./master_davinci a folder will be created within /data stamped with the date and time to contain all data output by the program. The program will automatically visualise the system using gnuplot and ImageMagick. \
\
System parameters can be varied within the following modules:\
- davinci_1_upperboundary.f90 to change how the speed of the upper system boundary varies over time\
- davinci_1_lowerboundary.f90 to change how the speed of the lower system boundary varies over time\
- davinci_1_initialvelocityfunction.f90 to change the velocity profile of the system at the start of a simulation\
- davinci_1_densityrelation.f90 to change the functional form of the relationship between fluid density and velocity\
- davinci_1_frictionrelation.f90 to change the functional form of the relationship between dynamic friction and fluid density\
- davinci_2_initialise.f90 to change system parameters such as number of fluid layers, fluid thickness, external pressure , total time etc. \
\ul \
Currently needing work:\
\ulnone Overshooting terms may not be working for large time steps? Possibly in the case of layers that aren\'92t in plugs yet. \
\
No variation of static friction with density. \
\
Dynamic friction and density relations need to be improved and justified. }